# Matrix-red-pills
Pitch document and player portal for a new matrix game concept

# What is Matrix Red Pills?
Matrix Red Pills (working title) is a concept for a new Matrix video game. The last Matrix video game came out in 2005 and it's high time for a new one. Since that time there have been many advances in video game technology (including the advent of virtual reality - VR) that can significantly add to the Matrix experience and bring it to life! Besides true-to-life graphics, state of the art physics, and massive open-world abilities, we now have the opportunity to introduce VR to the Matrix universe and help players truly experience the exciting possibilities of being a red pill in (And out of) the Matrix in a way they never havce been able to before! This project is completely fan-born and fan supported/developed (much like the community of the original Matrix Online game). 

## Purpose / Goals
The purpose of this project is to either compell Warner Brothers and the Wachowski siblings to develop this game in the vision we have set forth or to develop it here ourselves with the support of the community!

## Premise
The Matrix makes for a great foundation to a video game (especially VR) for a number of reasons:
  - The matrix is a huge artificial simulation (like VR and real life- duh)
  - In the matrix just about anything is possible as rules can be bent (some can be broken)
    - This means people can do anything, and be anyone inside the Matrix- especially once they know its constructs
    - It also means Red Pills that know how to *hack* can create things and whole worlds (and share these worlds)
    - It also means people can bend the rules of physics and reality
    - But lastly it means many of these things are unknown and waiting to be discovered (what rules can you bend, what can you break?)
    
## Gameplay Modes and Formats
To fully take advantage of all the possibilities the Matrix has to off, Red Pills will be thrust into the role of a recently freed *Red Pill* and have 3 different gameplay modes to choose from:

### Hack Mode (the loading construct)
This is the main mode and also the start menu. It is the loading construct from which players can load *guns* (lots of them), vehicles, clothing, accessories, and even levels (and other "code snippets"). As a player plays through the story mode (or through the Matrix itself) they can collect "code snippets" that unlock items or levels to use in the loading construct. These things may include things like clothing accessories, gun customizations, vehicles, or even extra bonus levels (like the Dojo construct). Players can save these snippets and take them out of the Matrix with them to use in Hack mode to create outfits, gun mods, levels (parts of levels can be combined to create bigger levels- the Dojo could be combined with a shooting range for example, or perhaps a tea garden for meditation or practicing certain aerial moves...).

Players can then load their creations when they jack back into the Matrix or they can jack into their levels (programs) themselves to play by themselves or with friends.

**Additionally** players can load programs (or other items) from the *marketplace* that are created by other players or offered as official add-on experiences (possibly to buy). They will also be able to join multi-player experiences hosted on the marketplace created by other Red Pills. What the community creates and the experiences you can partake in is truly unlimited (mods permitted).

### The Matrix Mode (story mode)
In this mode players jack into the Matrix and can explore the open and unlimited world of the Matrix. They can complete missions for the rebels, or join the the exiles! Or partake in other side quests (just watch out for those agents!). Here it is really open-world and open-format: players can make their own destiny and choose what they do or not do (and explore the vast world of the Matrix while they're at it!). The Matrix is massive and there is a lot to explore and discover! Nowhere is off limits! And as Red Pills develop their abilities and learn how to 'bend the rules' they will find more and more of the city open to them! From running along rooftops, to exploring the city underground, to infilitrating deep into the exile world of dangerous rogue programs, Red Pills can explore everything the Matrix has to offer. Besides discovering "code snippets", Red Pills can also discover many hidden locations and secrets of the Matrix! Along with this, their skills and abilities will also be mysteries with untold potential. No explicit skill system or leveling up- instead Red Pills simply discover their abilities as they play and grow (and who knows how far they might go!).

### MultiPlayer
The third and final gameplay mode is multiplayer. Much like the Matrix itself, multiplayer mode will consist of vast maps and worlds for players to play various combat formats against a large number of other players. While some multiplayer formats will be available in the marketplace, the official multiplayer mode will happen in large modified maps replicating the Matrix and other locations and will give players the chance to refine their skills and earn rewards and badges. From advanced gun fights, to city-wide parkour-like pursuits, to hand-to-hand and sword or other combat, there will be plenty of options for players to choose from. All with a centralized ranking and rewards system to track achievements and incentivize players to progress.

## Design approach and considerations
Like the Matrix itself, the Matrix Red Pills will be awe-inspiring in both scale and beauty. Utilizing the most modern ray tracing and shader technologies The Matrix Red Pills will truly bring the Matrix to life! Battling in slow motion and performing gravity-defying moves at the graphical fidelity that modern technologies offer will give players an unprecedented experience and level of immersion in the reality of the Matrix! Ultra realism is the goal (it *is* the Matrix afterall). While full ray-tracing is not available to most gamers yet, every technology available will be used for attaining the greatest visual fidelity possible.

Additionally it is important to build as large and immersive of a world as possible. This includes level design but also character and story design. As it is an open-world format there will be a huge number of possible story lines and associated characters with the goal of making it feel truly massive and with unlimited potential and playability.

## Virtual Reality
The Matrix Red Pills is an obvious candidate for virtual reality (lets get meta!). The ultimate goal of Matrix Red Pills is to create a believable and truly immersive experience, giving players total freedom and a real taste of what it is like being a red pill in the Matrix! Virtual reality will advance this goal and offer a unique and unprecedented experience! That said, it is understood that not all players have access to virtual reality and often concessions and compromises have to be made for a playable experience. Thus, the game should be developed primarily outside the considerations of virtual reality but with a focus of porting it intelligently to VR either after the fact or in parallel. The work of the Vertical Robot on Red Matter should be considered a benchmark for how the full game experience is optimized for VR and the graphical quality is preserved.

## Developers (potential)
As stated previously, the goal is to convince Warner Brothers and the Wachowski sisters to develop this game with a AAA game developer and in the vision developed here. The secondary goal is to develop it here with the community of fans and indie developers if goal #1 proves unattainable or unsatisfactory. As far as suitable developers there are many. However, Rockstar Games ([Rockstar Games](https://www.rockstargames.com/)) stands out as an excellent candidate based on their history creating massive open-world and genre-defining games, as well as their track record creating games with beautiful visuals and environments and which intellogently utilize modern technologies and optimizations. Their work on Grand Theft Auto V is a great example of exactly what The Matrix Red Pills could be (similar to). Both in its scale, beauty, and wealth of storylines and playable side quests. It offers a good model for developing Matrix Red Pills with the additions of the *hacker mode* and public marketplace. The potential for Rockstar Games to make the Matrix Red Pills into a really fantastic and ground-breaking game, as well as the potential to capitalize on the Matrix platform and Universe is truly Enormous and could deliver untold profits that even rival the upcoming theatrical release and act synergistically with it.

## How to get involved
Lastly, in order for this vision to come to fruition it needs to gain traction and attract the attention of the Wachowski sisters and those are WB. It's important to show that the demand is there for this game and that there is a lot of interest and also that it has a lot of potential, especially in this format and vision. To do that we need to share this wherever we can and generate interest and discussion. There are a lot of different Matrix communities around the internet and a lot of discussion boards and forums that would love to partake in this project and learn more about it. So sharing is caring. Additionally, as this project is community based, suggestions, feedback, and discussion is welcome and anyone that wants to make a pull request can (no guarantee that any will be merged though).
